Stabilization and Control In a Linear Ion Trap


A thesis submitted for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy

John-Patrick Stacey

Trinity Term, 2003; Wadham College, Oxford


Abstract

This thesis describes experimental work towards developing a trapped ion
quantum information processor. An existing ion trap apparatus was capable
of trapping and laser-cooling single ions or small ion strings of 40Ca+,
and had been used for studies of quantum jumps and natural lifetime
measurements in Ca. This thesis describes improvements in this apparatus,
which have allowed the stability and the flexibility of experimental
control of the ions to be greatly increased. This enabled experiments to
read out the spin state of a single trapped ion, and to load ions with
isotope selectivity through photoionization.

The optical systems were improved by installation of new lasers, optical
reference cavities, and a system of acousto-optic modulators for laser
intensity switching and frequency control. The photon counting for
fluorescence detection was improved, and a new photon time-of-arrival
correlation circuit developed. This has permitted rapid and more sensitive
detection of micromotion, and hence cancellation of stray fields in the
trap.

A study of resonant circuits in the low RF, high voltage (10 MHz, 1 kV)  
regime was carried out with a view to developing a new RF supply for the
Paul trap with reduced noise and increased power. A new supply based on a
helical resonator was built and used to trap ions. This technique has
reduced noise and will permit higher secular frequencies to be attained in
the future.

A magnetic field B in the ion trap is used to define a quantization axis,
and in one series of experiments was required to be of order 100G to
provide a substantial Zeeman splitting. A set of magnetic field coils to
control the size and direction of B is described.  The design of these
posed some problems owing to an unforseen issue with the vacuum chamber.
In short, it is magnetizable and acts to first approximation like a
magnetic shield. The field coils had to be sufficiently substantial to
produce the desired field at the ion even in the presence of this
shielding effect, and dark resonance (and other) spectra with Zeeman
splitting were obtained to calibrate the field using the ion as a probe.

Finally, the thesis describes the successful loading of the ion trap by
laser photoionization from a weak atomic beam. This involved two new
lasers at 423 nm and 389 nm.  Saturated absorption spectroscopy of neutral
calcium is first described, then transverse excitation of an atomic beam
in our vacuum chamber is used to identify all the main isotopes of calcium
and confirm their abundances in our source (a heated sample of natural
calcium). Finally, photoionization is used to load the trap. This has
three advantages over electron-impact ionization. By avoiding an electron
gun, we avoid charging of insulating patches and subsequent electric field
drift as they discharge; the flux in the atomic beam and hence calcium
(and other) deposits on the electrodes can be greatly reduced; and most
importantly, the photoionization is isotope selective. Evidence is
presented which suggests that even with an non-enriched source, the rare
isotope 43Ca can be loaded with reasonable efficiency. This isotope is
advantageous for quantum information experiments for several reasons, but
chiefly because its ground state hyperfine structure can act as a stable
qubit.
